# plaso2graph


Plaso2Graph is a tool to convert the output of plaso into a graph format. It takes as input the format "json_line" from plaso outputs and gives an extract to visualise the data in neo4j.

## Why use plaso2graph ?

In Forensic Investigation, it can be hard to visualise the data and understand the timeline of events and gain general insight of the investigation. Plaso2Graph, like the name suggest, convert the output of plaso, a famous tool for timeline analysis that handles a lot of artefacts, into a graph format that can be visualised in a graph database.

To be able to visualise the data helps to understand links between Process, Users, Computer, etc. 
However the project is dependent of what artefacts Plaso can parse, so it is not a complete solution to visualise all artefacts.

## Usage

```
Usage of ./plaso2graph:
  -extractor string
    	Type of Extractor to use. (default: neo4j, csv, json, xml) (default "neo4j")
  -output string
    	Output Json File (default "output/")
  -password
    	Prompt for password
  -source string
    	Source CSV File generated by plaso (default "data/output.json")
  -url string
    	Url of Neo4j (default "bolt://localhost:7687")
  -username string
    	Username for Neo4j (default "neo4j")
  -verbose
    	Verbose mode
```

## Tech Choice

### Why Plaso ?

We use Plaso as input because it parse a large collection of artefact and order them into a timeline, this provide us a standard and easier way to process artefacts and also make simpler the merge between artefacts.

For example, a process execution may create an Evtx log, a prefetch and a SRUM artefact, the fact that __Plaso__ order the artefact by their timestamp make those artefacts close in the file and let us merge them without rereading the entire array.

